“The Doctrine of Fascism” (1932)
by Benito Mussolini
ike all sound political conceptions, Fascism 1s whereas, by the exercise of his free will, man can
action and it is thought; action in which and must create his own world.
doctrine is immanent, and doctrine arising
from a given system of historical forces in Fascism wants man to be active and to engage in
which it is inserted, and working on them from action with all his energies; it wants him to be
within. It has therefore a form correlated to manfully aware of the difficulties besetting him
contingencies of time and space; but it has also an and ready to face them. It conceives of life as a
ideal content which makes it an expression of truth in struggle in which it behooves a man to win for himself a
the higher region of the history of thought. There is really worthy place, first of all by fitting himself
no way of exercising a spiritual influence in the world (physically, morally, intellectually) to become the
as a human will dominating the will of others, unless implement required for winning it. As for the
one has a conception both of the transient and the individual, so for the nation, and so for mankind.
specific reality on which that action is to be exercised, Hence the high value of culture in all its forms
and of the permanent and universal reality in which (artistic, religious, scientific) and the
the transient dwells and has its being. To know men outstanding importance of education. Hence also
one must know man; and to know man one must be the essential value of work, by which man subjugates
acquainted with reality and its laws. There can be no nature and creates the human world (economic,
conception of the State which is not fundamentally a political, ethical, and intellectual).
conception of life: philosophy or intuition, system of
ideas evolving within the framework of logic or ; wo: ; ipo: ;
concentrated in a vision or a faith, but always, at least This positive conception of life 1s obviously
potentially, an organic conception of the world. an ethical one. It invests the whole field of
reality as well as the human activities which
Thus many of the practical expressions of Fascism master it. No action is exempt from moral
such as party organization, system of education, judgment; no activity can be despoiled of the
and discipline can only be understood when value which a moral purpose confers on
considered in relation to its general attitude toward
life. A spiritual attitude. Fascism sees in the world all things. Theret Ore life, as conceived of
not only those superficial, material aspects by the Fascist, 1S SCTOUS, austere, and
in which man appears as an individual, standing by religious; all its manifestations are poised in
himself, self-centered, subject to natural law, which a world sustained by moral forces and
instinctively urges him toward a life of selfish subject to spiritual responsibilities. The
momentary pleasure; it sees not only the Fascist disdains an “easy” life.
individual but the nation and the _ country;
individuals and generations bound together by a a _
moral law, with common traditions and a mission The Fascist conception of life IS a religious one, m
which suppressing the instinct for life closed in a which man 1s viewed in his immanent relation to a
brief circle of pleasure, builds up a higher life, higher law, endowed with an objective will
founded on duty, a life free from the limitations of transcending the individual and Taising him to
time and space, in which the individual, by self- COnSELOUS membership of a spiritual society.
sacrifice, the renunciation of self-interest, by death Those who perceive nothing beyond opportunistic
itself, can achieve that purely spiritual existence in considerations jn the religious policy of the
which his value as a man consists. Fascist regime fail to realize that Fascism is not only a
system of government but also and above all a system
The conception is therefore a spiritual one, arising of thought.
from the general reaction of the century against the
materialistic positivism of the 19th century. Anti- In the Fascist conception of history, man is man only
positivistic but positive; neither skeptical nor by virtue of the spiritual process to which he
agnostic; neither pessimistic nor supinely optimistic contributes as a member of the family, the social
as are, generally speaking, the doctrines (all group, the nation, and in function of history to which
negative) which place the center of life outside man: all nations bring their contribution. Hence the great
l

value of tradition in records, in language, in customs, in within the orbit of the State, Fascism recognizes the
the rules of social life. Outside history man is a real needs which gave rise to socialism and
nonentity. Fascism is therefore opposed to all trade unionism, giving them due weight in the guild
individualistic abstractions based on_ eighteenth or corporative system in which divergent interests
century materialism; and it is opposed to all are coordinated and harmonized in the unity of the
Jacobinistic utopias and innovations. It does not State.
believe in the possibility of “happiness” on earth
as conceived by the economistic literature of Grouped according to their several interests,
the 18th century, and it therefore rejects the individuals form classes; they form trade-unions
theological notion that at some future time the when organized according to their several economic
human family will secure a final settlement of all its activities; but first and foremost they form the State,
difficulties. This notion runs counter to experience which is no mere matter of numbers, the suns of the
which teaches that life is in continual flux and in individuals forming the majority. Fascism is
process of evolution. In politics Fascism aims at therefore opposed to that form of democracy
realism; in practice it desires to deal only with those which equates a nation to the majority, lowering it to
problems which are the spontaneous product of the level of the largest number; but it is the purest form
historic conditions and which find or suggest of democracy if the nation be considered as it should
their own solutions. Only by entering in to the be from the point of view of quality rather than
process of reality and taking possession of the forces quantity, as an idea, the mightiest because the
at work within it, can man act on man and on nature. most ethical, the most coherent, the truest,
expressing itself in a people as the conscience
Anti-individualistic, the Fascist conception of life and will of the few, if not, indeed, of one, and
stresses the importance of the State and accepts the ending to express itself in the conscience and the
individual only in so far as his interests coincide will of the mass, of the whole group ethnically
with those of the State, which stands for the molded by natural and historical conditions into a
conscience and the universal, will of man as a nation, advancing, as one conscience and one will,
historic entity. It is opposed to classical liberalism along the self same line of development and spiritual
which arose as a reaction to absolutism and formation. Not a race, nor a _ geographically
exhausted its historical function when the State defined region, but a_ people, historically
became the expression of the conscience and will of perpetuating itself; a multitude unified by an
the people. Liberalism denied the State in the name idea and imbued with the will to live, the will to
of the individual; Fascism reasserts power, self-consciousness, personality.
The rights of the State as expressing the real essence In so far as it is embodied in a State, this higher
of the individual. And if liberty 1s to he the attribute of personality becomes a nation. It is not the nation
living men and not of abstract dummies invented by which generates the State; that is an antiquated
individualistic liberalism, then Fascism stands for naturalistic concept which afforded a basis for
liberty, and for the only liberty worth having, the 19th century publicity in favor of national
liberty of the State and of the individual within the governments. Rather is it the State which creates
State. The Fascist conception of the State is all the nation, conferring volition and therefore real
embracing; outside of it no human or spiritual values life on a people made aware of their moral unity.
can exist, much less have value. Thus understood,
Fascism, is totalitarian, and the Fascist State —a The right to national independence does not
synthesis and a unit inclusive of all values — arise from any merely literary and idealistic form
interprets, develops, and potentates the whole life of a of self-consciousness; still less from a more or
people. less passive and unconscious de facto situation,
but from an active, self-conscious, political will
No individuals or groups (political parties, cultural expressing itself in action and ready to prove its
associations, economic unions, social classes) outside rights. It arises, in short, from the existence, at
the State. Fascism is therefore opposed to Socialism to least in fieri, of a State. Indeed, it is the State
which unity within the State (which amalgamates which, as the expression of a universal ethical
classes into a single economic and ethical reality) is will, creates the right to national independence.
unknown, and which sees in history nothing but the
class struggle. Fascism is likewise opposed to trade A nation, as expressed in the State, is a living,
unionism as a class weapon. But when brought ethical entity only in so far as it is progressive.
2

Inactivity is death. Therefore the State is not only doctrinal experience. My doctrine during that
Authority which governs and confers legal form and period had been the doctrine of action. A
spiritual value on individual wills, but it 1s also uniform, universally accepted doctrine of
Power which makes its will felt and respected Socialism had not existed since 1905, when the
beyond its own frontiers, thus affording practical revisionist movement, headed by Bernstein,
proof of the universal character of the decisions arose in Germany, countered by the formation,
necessary to ensure its development. This implies in the see-saw of tendencies, of a left
organization and expansion, potential if not revolutionary movement which in Italy never
actual. Thus the State equates itself to the will of quitted the field of phrases, whereas, in the case
man, whose development cannot he checked by of Russian socialism, it became the prelude to
obstacles and which, by achieving  self- Bolshevism.
expression, demonstrates its infinity.

Reformism, revolutionism, centrism, the very
The Fascist State , as a higher and more powerful echo of that terminology is dead, while in the great
expression of personality, is a force, but a river of Fascism one can trace currents which had
spiritual one. It sums up all the manifestations of their source in Sorel, Peguy, Lagardelle of the
the moral and intellectual life of man. Its functions Movement Socialists, and in the cohort of Italian
cannot therefore be limited to those of enforcing syndicalist who from 1904 to 1914 brought a new
order and keeping the peace, as the liberal doctrine note into the Italian socialist environment —
had it. It is no mere mechanical device for defining the previously emasculated and _ chloroformed by
sphere within which the individual may duly fornicating with Giolitti’s party — a note sounded in
exercise his supposed rights. The Fascist State is Olivetti’s Pagine Libere, Orano’s Lupa, Enrico
an inwardly accepted standard and rule of conduct, Leone’s Divenirs Socials.
a discipline of the whole person; it permeates the
will no less than the intellect. It stands for a When the war ended in 1919 Socialism, as a
principle which becomes the central motive of doctrine, was already dead; it continued to
man as a member of civilized society, sinking exist only as a grudge, especially in Italy
deep down into his personality; it dwells in the where its only chance lay in inciting to
heart of the man of action and of the thinker, of reprisals against the men who had willed the
the artist and of the man of science: soul of the war and who were to be made to pay for it.
soul.

The Popolo d’Italia described itself in its subtitle
Fascism, in short, is not only a law-giver and a as the daily organ of fighters and producers. The
founder of institutions, but an educator and a word producer was already the expression of a
promoter of spiritual life. It aims at refashioning not mental trend. Fascism was not the nursling of a
only the forms of life but their content — man, his doctrine previously drafted at a desk; it was born
character, and his faith. To achieve this propose it of the need of action, and was action; it was not a
enforces discipline and uses authority, entering into party but, in the first two years, an anti-party and a
the soul and ruling with undisputed sway. Therefore it movement. The name I gave the organization
has chosen as its emblem the Lictor’s rods, the fixed its character.
symbol of unity, strength, and justice.

Yet if anyone cares to reread the now crumpled
POLITICAL AND SOCIAL DOCTRINE sheets of those days giving an account of the

meeting at which the Italian Fasci di
When in the now distant March of 1919, speaking combattimento were founded, he will find not a
through the columns of the Popolo d'Italia I doctrine but a series of pointers, forecasts, hints
summoned to Milan the surviving interventionists which, when freed from the inevitable matrix of
who had intervened, and who had followed me contingencies, were to develop in a few years
ever since the foundation of the Fascist of time into a series of doctrinal positions entitling
revolutionary action in January 1915, I had in Fascism to rank as a political doctrine differing from
mind no specific doctrinal program. The only all others, past or present.
doctrine of which I had practical experience was
that of socialism, from until the winter of 1914 If the bourgeoisie — I then said — believe that they
— nearly a decade. My experience was that both have found in us their lightening-conductors, they
of a follower and a leader but it was not arc mistaken. We must go towards the people.... We

3

wish the working classes to accustom themselves doctrine at the very time when that doctrine was
to the responsibilities of management so that being formulated — no matter how tumultuously, —
they may realize that it is no easy matter to run first, as is the case with all new ideas, in the
a business... We will fight both technical and guise of violent dogmatic negations; then in the
spiritual rear-guardism.... Now that the succession of more positive guise of constructive theories,
the regime is open we must not be fainthearted. subsequently incorporated, in 1926, 1927, and
We must rush forward; if the present regime 1s to 1928, in the laws and institutions of the regime.
be superseded we must take its place. The right of
succession is ours, for we urged the country to Fascism is now clearly defined not only as a regime
enter the war and we led it to victory... The but as a doctrine. This means that Fascism,
existing forms of political representation cannot exercising its critical faculties on itself and on
satisfy us; we want direst representation of the others, has studied from its own special
several interests.... It may be objected that this standpoint and judged by its own standards all the
program implies a return to the guilds problems affecting the material and _ intellectual
(corporazioni). No matter!’ I therefore hope this interests now causing such grave anxiety to the
assembly will accept the economic claims nations of the world, and is ready to deal with
advanced by national syndicalism .... them by its own policies.
Is it not strange that from the very first First of all, as regards the future development of
day, at Piazza San Sepolcro, the word mankind, and quite apart from all present political
“suild” (corporazione) was pronounced, a considerations. Fascism docs: not, generally
; speaking, believe in the possibility or utility of
word which, as the Revolution developed, pe
perpetual peace. It therefore discards pacifism as a
was to express one of the basic legislative cloak for cowardly supine renunciation in
and social creations of the regime’? contradistinction to self-sacrifice. War alone keys
up all human energies to their maximum
The years preceding the March on Rome cover a tension and sets the seal of nobility on those
period during which the need of action forbade delay peoples who have the courage to face it. All other
and careful doctrinal elaborations. Fighting was tests are substitutes which never place a man face
going on in the towns and villages. There were to face with himself before the alternative of life
discussions but ... there was something more or death. Therefore all doctrines which postulate
sacred and more important.... death.... Fascists peace at all costs are incompatible with Fascism.
knew how to die. A doctrine — fully elaborated, Equally foreign to the spirit of Fascism, even if
divided up into chapters and paragraphs with accepted as useful in meeting special political
annotations, may have been lacking, but it was situations — are all internationalistic or League
replaced by something far more decisive, — by a superstructures which, as history shows, crumble
faith. All the same, if with the help of books, to the ground whenever the heart of nations is deeply
articles, resolutions passed at congresses, major and stirred by sentimental, idealistic or practical
minor speeches, anyone should care to revive the considerations. Fascism carries this anti-pacifistic
memory of those days, he will find, provided he attitude into the life of the individual. “I don’t
knows how to seek and select, that the doctrinal care a damn” (me ne frego) — the proud motto of
foundations were laid while the battle was still the fighting squads scrawled by a wounded man on
raging. Indeed, it was during those years that his bandages, is not only an act of philosophic
Fascist thought armed, refined itself, and Stoicism, it sums up a doctrine which is not
proceeded ahead with its organization. The merely political: it is evidence of a fighting spirit
problems of the individual and the State; the which accepts all risks. It signifies new style of
problems of authority and liberty; political, social, Italian life. The Fascist accepts and loves life; he
and more especially national problems were rejects and despises suicide as cowardly. Life as he
discussed; the conflict with liberal, democratic, understands it means duty, elevation, conquest; life
socialistic, Masonic doctrines and with those of must be lofty and full, it must be lived for oneself
the Partito Popolare, was carried on at the same but above all for others, both near bye and far off,
time as the punitive expeditions. Nevertheless, present and future.
the lack of a formal system was used by
disingenuous adversaries as an argument for The population policy of the regime is the
proclaiming Fascism incapable of elaborating a consequence of these premises. The Fascist loves
4

his neighbor, but the word neighbor “does not content when they can feed and fatten, thus
stand for some vague and unseizable conception. reducing them to a vegetative existence pure
Love of one’s neighbor does not exclude necessary and simple.
educational severity; still less does it exclude
differentiation and rank. Fascism will have nothing After socialism, Fascism trains its guns on the
to do with universal embraces; as a member of the whole block of democratic ideologies, and rejects
community of nations it looks other peoples both their premises and their practical applications
straight in the eyes; it is vigilant and on its and implements. Fascism denies that numbers, as
guard; it follows others in all their such, can be the determining factor in human
manifestations and notes any changes in their society; it denies the right of numbers to govern
interests; and it does not allow itself to be by means of periodical consultations; it asserts the
deceived by mutable and fallacious appearances. irremediable and fertile and beneficent inequality of
men who cannot be leveled by any such
Such a conception of life makes Fascism the mechanical and extrinsic device as_ universal
resolute negation of the doctrine underlying so- suffrage. Democratic regimes may be described as
called scientific and Marxian socialism, the doctrine those under which the people are, from time to
of historic materialism which would explain the time, deluded into the belief that they exercise
history of mankind in terms of the class struggle sovereignty, while all the time real sovereignty
and by changes in the processes and instruments resides in and is exercised by other and
of production, to the exclusion of all else. sometimes irresponsible and_ secret forces.
Democracy is a kingless regime infested by many
That the vicissitudes of economic life — kings who are sometimes more exclusive, tyrannical,
discoveries of raw materials, new _ technical and destructive than one, even if he be a tyrant.
processes, and scientific inventions — have their This explains why Fascism — although, for
importance, no one denies; but that they suffice contingent reasons, it was republican in tendency
to explain human history to the exclusion of other prior to 1922 — abandoned that stand before the
factors is absurd. Fascism believes now and always in March on Rome, convinced that the form of
sanctity and heroism, that is to say in acts in government is no longer a matter of preeminent
which no economic motive — remote or immediate importance, and because the study of past and
— is at work. Having denied historic materialism, present monarchies and past and present
which sees in men mere puppets on the surface of republics shows that neither monarchy nor republic
history, appearing and disappearing on the crest can be judged sub specie aeternitatis, but that each
of the waves while in the depths the real stands for a form of government expressing the
directing forces move and work, Fascism also political evolution, the history, the traditions, and
denies the immutable and irreparable character of the psychology of a given country.
the class struggle which 1s the natural outcome of this
economic conception of history; above all it Fascism has outgrown the dilemma: monarchy v.
denies that the class_ struggle is the republic, over which democratic regimes too long
preponderating agent in social transformations. dallied, attributing all insufficiencies to the
Having thus struck a blow at socialism in the two former and proning the latter as a regime of
main points of its doctrine, all that remains of it perfection, whereas experience teaches that some
is the sentimental aspiration-old as humanity republics are inherently reactionary and absolutist
itself-toward social relations in which the while some monarchies accept the most daring
sufferings and sorrows of the humbler folk will political and social experiments.
be alleviated. But here again Fascism rejects the
economic interpretation of felicity as something In one of his philosophic Meditations Renan —
to be secured  socialistically, almost who had prefascist intuitions, remarks, “Reason and
automatically, at a given stage of economic science are the products of mankind, but it is
evolution when all will be assured a maximum of chimerical to seek reason directly for the
material comfort. Fascism denies the people and through the people. It is not essential to
materialistic conception of happiness as a the existence of reason that all should be familiar
possibility, and abandons it to the economists of with it; and even if all had to be initiated, this
the mid-eighteenth century. This means that could not be achieved through democracy which
Fascism denies the equation: well-being = seems fated to lead to the extinction of all
happiness, which sees in men mere animals, arduous forms of culture and all highest forms of
5

learning. The maxim that society exists only for In 1851 Napoleon Ill made his illiberal
the well-being and freedom of the individuals coup d’etat and ruled France until 1870
composing it does not seem to be in conformity with
nature’s plans, which care only for the species and when he was turned out by a popular
seem ready to sacrifice the individual. It is much rising following one of the severest
to be feared that the last word of democracy military defeats known to history. The
thus understood (and let me hasten to add that it victor was Bismarck who never even
is susceptible of a different” interpretation) knew the whereabouts of liberalism and
would be a form of society in which a degenerate ; ; :;
mass would have no thought beyond that of its prophets. It 1s symptomatic that
enjoying the ignoble pleasures of the vulgar “. throughout the 19th century the religion of
liberalism was completely unknown to so
In rejecting democracy Fascism rejects the highly civilized a people as the Germans
absurd conventional lie of political but for one parenthesis which has been
equalitarianism, the habit of collective described as the “ridiculous parliament of
irresponsibility, the myth of felicity and Frankfort “ which lasted just one season.
indefinite progress. But if democracy be Germany attained her national unity
understood as meaning a regime in which outside liberalism and in opposition to
the masses are not driven back to the liberalism, a doctrine which seems
margin of the State, and then the writer foreign to the German temperament,
of these pages has already defined essentially monarchical, whereas liberalism
Fascism as an organized, centralized, is the historic and logical anteroom to
authoritarian democracy. anarchy. The three stages in the making
of German unity were the three wars of
Fascism is definitely and absolutely opposed 1864, 1866, and 1870, led by
to the doctrines of liberalism, both in the such “liberals” as Moltke and Bismarck.
political and the economic sphere. The And in the upbuilding of Italian unity
importance of liberalism in the 19th liberalism played a very minor part when
century should not be exaggerated for compared to the contribution made by
present day polemical purposes, nor Mazzini and Garibaldi who were not
should we make of one of the many liberals. But for the intervention of the
doctrines which flourished in that century a illiberal Napoleon HI we should not have
religion for mankind for the present and had Lombardy, and without that of the
for all time to come. Liberalism really illiberal Bismarck at Sadowa and at
flourished for fifteen years only. It arose Sedan very probably we should not have
in 1830 as a reaction to the Holy had Venetia in 1866 and in 1870 we
Alliance which tried to force Europe to should not have entered Rome. The
recede further back than 1789; it touched years going from 1870 to 1915 cover a
its zenith in 1848 when even Pius [Xth period which marked, even in the opinion
was a liberal. Its decline began of the high priests of the new creed, the
immediately after that year. If 1848 was a twilight of their religion, attacked by
year of light and poetry, 1849 was a year decadentism in literature and by activism
of darkness and tragedy. The Roman in practice. Activism: that is to say
Republic was killed by a sister republic, that nationalism, futurism, fascism.
of France . In that same year Marx, in his
famous Communist Manifesto, launched The liberal century, after piling up
the gospel of socialism. innumerable Gordian Knots, tried to cut
them with the sword of the world war. Never
6

has any religion claimed so cruel a “collective” century, and therefore the century
sacrifice. Were the Gods of liberalism of the State. It is quite logical for a new
thirsting for blood? doctrine to make use of the still vital elements
of other doctrines. No doctrine was ever born
quite new and bright and unheard of. No
Now liberalism is preparing to close the doors of doctrine can boast absolute originality. It is
its temples, deserted by the peoples who feel always connected, it only historically, with those
that the agnosticism it professed in the sphere which preceded it and those which will follow it.
of economics and the indifferentism of which it Thus the scientific socialism of Marx links up to
has given proof in the sphere of politics and the utopian socialism of the Fouriers, the Owens,
morals, would lead the world to ruin in the the Saint-Simons; thus the liberalism of the 19th
future as they have done in the past. century traces its origin back to the illuministic
movement of the 18th, and the doctrines of
This explains why all the political experiments of democracy to those of the Encyclopaedists. All
our day are anti-liberal, and it is supremely doctrines aim at directing the activities of men
ridiculous to endeavor on this account to put towards a given objective; but these activities in
them outside the pale of history, as though their turn react on the doctrine, modifying and
history were a preserve set aside for liberalism adjusting it to new needs, or outstripping it. A
and its adepts; as though liberalism were the last doctrine must therefore be a vital act and not a
word in civilization beyond which no one can go. verbal display. Hence the pragmatic strain in
Fascism, it’s will to power, its will to live, its
The Fascist negation of socialism, democracy, attitude toward violence, and its value.
liberalism, should not, however, be interpreted as
implying a desire to drive the world backwards The keystone of the Fascist doctrine is its conception
to positions occupied prior to 1789, a year of the State, of its essence, its functions, and its aims.
commonly referred to as that which opened the For Fascism the State is absolute, individuals
demo-liberal century. History does not travel and groups relative. Individuals and groups are
backwards. The Fascist doctrine has not taken De admissible in so far as they come within the
Maistre as its prophet. Monarchical absolutism 1s State. Instead of directing the game and guiding
of the past, and so is ecclesiolatry. Dead and done the material and moral progress of the
for are feudal privileges and the division of community, the liberal State restricts its
society into closed, uncommunicating castes. activities to recording results. The Fascist State is
Neither has the Fascist conception of authority wide awake and has a will of its own. For this
anything in common with that of a police ridden reason it can be described as “ethica.”
State.
At the first quinquennial assembly of the
A party governing a nation “totalitarianly” is a regime, in 1929, I said, “The Fascist State
new departure in history. There are no points of ; ‘oht tch licit ]
reference nor of comparison. From beneath the is not a night watchman, SO. tel Ous on ¥
ruins of liberal, socialist, and democratic of the personal safety of the citizens; not is
doctrines, Fascism extracts those elements which it organized exclusively for the purpose
are still vital. It preserves what may be of guarantying a certain degree of
described as “the acquired facts” of history; it material prosperity and relatively peaceful
rejects all else. That is to say, it rejects the idea “ys ; ;
of a doctrine suited to all times and to all conditions of life, a board of directors
people. Granted that the 19th century was the would do as much. Neither is it
century of socialism, liberalism, democracy, this exclusively political, divorced from
does not mean that the 20th century must also be practical realities and holding itself aloof
the century of socialism, liberalism, democracy. from the multifarious activities of the
Political doctrines pass; nations remain. We are oy d th ti The Stat
free to believe that this is the century of citizens an © na ton. c a C> as
authority, a century tending to the “right,” a conceived and realized by Fascism, is a
Fascist century. If the 19th century was the century spiritual and ethical entity for securing
of the individual (liberalism implies individualism) the political, juridical, and economic
we are free to believe that this is_ the organization of the nation, an
7

organization which in its origin and German Humbolt who expressed the opinion that
3 3
growth is a manifestation of the spirit. the best government was a lazy one? What would
; they say now to the unceasing, inevitable, and
The State guarantees the internal and | dj ; F ;
‘tal urgently requested interventions o government in
external safety of the country, but It also business? It is true that the second generation of
safeguards and transmits the spirit of the economists was less uncompromising in this respect
people, elaborated down the ages in its than the first, and that even Adam Smith left the
language, its customs, its faith. The State door ajar — however cautiously — for government
is not only the present; it is also the intervention in business.
past and above all the  tuture. If liberalism spells individualism, Fascism spells
Transcending the individual’s briet spell of government. The Fascist State is, however, a
life, the State stands for the immanent unique and original creation. It is not reactionary
conscience of the nation. The forms in but revolutionary, for it anticipates the solution
which it finds expression change, but the of certain universal problems which have been
d for it The State educates th raised elsewhere, in the political field by the
nee ori Femalns. © oldte educates the splitting up of parties, the usurpation of power by
citizens to civism, makes them awale of parliaments, the irresponsibility of assemblies; in
their mission, urges them to unity; its the economic field by the increasingly numerous
justice harmonizes’ their divergent and important functions discharged by trade
interests; it transmits to future generations unions and trade associations with their disputes
the conquests of the mind in the fields of and ententes, affecting both capital and labor; in
q the ethical field by the need felt for order,
science, art, law, human solidarity; It discipline, obedience to the moral dictates of
leads men up from primitive tribal life to patriotism.
that highest manifestation of human
power, imperial rule. The State hands Fascism desires the State to be strong and organic,
down to future generations the memory of based on broad foundations of popular support. The
; - 4: Fascist State lays claim to rule in the economic
those who laid down their lives to ensure f: -
ield no less than in others; it makes its action
its safety or to obey its laws; it sets up as felt throughout the length and breadth of the
examples and records for future ages the country by means of its corporative, social, and
names of the captains who enlarged its educational institutions, and all the political,
territory and of the men of genius who economic, and spiritual forces | of the nation,
have made it famous. Whenever respect for organized in their respective associations, circulate
i P within the State. A State based on millions of
the State declines and the disintegrating individuals who recognize its authority, feel its
and centrifugal tendencies of individuals action, and are ready to serve its ends is not the
and groups prevail, nations are headed for tyrannical state of a mediaeval lordling. It has
decay.” nothing in common with the despotic States existing
prior to or subsequent to 1789. Far from crushing
the individual, the Fascist Stat Itiplies hi
Since 1929 economic and political developments 6 ee Cee ee age oe
h h hasized th hs. Th energies, just as in a regiment a soldier is not
nave everywhere emphasized these truths. the diminished but multiplied by the number of his fellow
importance of the State is rapidly growing. The so- soldiers
called crisis can only be settled by State action and
within the orbit of the State. Where are the
shades of the Jules Simons who, in the early The Fascist State Organizes the nation,
days of liberalism proclaimed that the “State but it leaves the individual adequate elbow
should endeavor to render itself useless and room. It has curtailed useless or harmful
prepare to hand in its resignation”? Or of the liberties while preserving those which are
MacCullochs who, in the second half of last tial. I h tt the individual
century, urged that the State should desist from essential, 11 Suc Matters the mMeividua
governing too much? And what of the English cannot be the judge, but the State only.
Bentham who considered that all industry asked
of government was to be left alone, and of the
8

The Fascist State is not indifferent to religious Never before have the peoples thirsted for authority,
phenomena in general nor does it maintain an direction, order, as they do now. If each age has its
attitude of indifference to Roman Catholicism, doctrine, then innumerable symptoms indicate that
the special, positive religion of Italians. The State the doctrine of our age is the Fascist. That it is
has not got a theology but it has a moral code. vital is shown by the fact that it has aroused a
The Fascist State sees in religion one of the faith; that this faith has conquered souls is shown
deepest of spiritual manifestations and for this reason by the fact that Fascism can point to its fallen
it not only respects religion but defends and heroes and its martyrs.
protects it. The Fascist State does not attempt, as
did Robespierre at the height of the revolutionary Fascism has now acquired throughout the world
delirium of the Convention, to set up a “god” that universally which belongs to all doctrines which
of its own; nor does it vainly seek, as does by achieving self-expression represent a moment
Bolshevism, to efface God from the soul of man. in the history of human thought.
Fascism respects the God of ascetics, saints, and
heroes, and it also respects God as conceived by the
ingenuous and primitive heart of the people, the
God to whom their prayers are raised.
The Fascist State expresses the will to exercise
power and to command. Here the Roman tradition
is embodied in a conception of strength. Imperial
power, as understood by the Fascist doctrine, is not
only territorial, or military, or commercial; it 1s
also spiritual and ethical. An imperial nation, that
is to say a nation which directly or indirectly is a
leader of others, can exist without the need of
conquering a single square mile of territory.
Fascism sees in the imperialistic spirit — 1.e., in the
tendency of nations to expand — a manifestation of
their vitality. In the opposite tendency, which
would limit their interests to the home country, it
sees a symptom of decadence. Peoples who rise or
re-arise are imperialistic; renunciation 1s
characteristic of dying peoples. The Fascist doctrine
is that best suited to the tendencies and feelings of
a people which, like the Italian, after lying fallow
during centuries of foreign servitude, are now
reasserting itself in the world.
But imperialism implies discipline, the
coordination of efforts, a deep sense of duty
and a spirit of self-sacrifice. This explains
many aspects of the practical activity of the
regime, and the direction taken by many of
the forces of the State, as also the severity
which has to be exercised towards those
who would oppose this spontaneous and
inevitable movement of 20th century
Italy by agitating outgrown ideologies of
the 19th century, ideologies rejected
wherever great experiments in political
and social transformations are being dared.
9

10

